### LOW LEVEL DESIGN

- Low level design is a detailed phase in the software development process that focuses on designing the individual
  components outlined in High Level Design
- LLD delves into specifics, defining how modules, classes, functions and data structures, algorithms, relations between
  objects, internal workflows interact to achieve the desired functionality.
- for example : In a Movie Ticked Booking System, LLD would detail how components like seat selection, payment
  processing and ticket generation are implemented and interact with each other.
- Low level design (LLD) and High Level Design (HLD) are tow key stages in software development focusing on different
  levels of details.
- 1st Stage is HLD and 2nd Stage is LLD.

### HLD Overview (What components exists in the System)

- HLD focuses on the overall architecture of the system.
- In a Banking Application the main components are User Interface, Banking Services, Account Management, Transaction
  Processing, Loan Management, Payment Gateway Integration, Notification Service, Database.
- It also defines Service Communication, APIs, Data flow and External Systems. User → Mobile App → Banking Service →
  Payment Gateway → Database
- The backend services (handling booking requests, seat availability and notifications)
- The database (storing movie schedules, user data and bookings).
- It would also define how these components interact like the flow of data between the user interface, backend and
  third-party payment gateways.

### LLD Overview (How exactly each feature works internally?)

- LLD deep dives into the specifics of implementing individual features.
- For example **Money Transfer** It defines classes like Account, Transaction,Payment Processor. Validation Logic,
  Concurrency Handling, Database operations, Error handling.

```text
1. User requests transfer
2. Validate sender account
3. Check balance
4. Lock account
5. Debit sender
6. Credit receiver
7. Save transaction record
8. Send notification
```

- It specifies how data is validated (ensuring selected seats are available and payment details are correct).
- Algorithms for locking Account Transfers (to prevent double credits/debits) and how the transaction information is
  stored in the database.
- LLD also describes the flow of data, such as how a credit/debit confirmation is generated and sent to the user via
  email or SMS. It's like creating blueprints for each transaction in the system, covering the smallest details to
  ensure
  reliability and precision.
- While HLD sets the vision for the system, LLD ensures every feature like booking tickets, is implemented accurately
  and aligns with the high-level plan.

| Stage   | Focus                       | Level              |
|---------|-----------------------------|--------------------|
| **HLD** | Overall system architecture | Big picture        |
| **LLD** | Internal implementation     | Detailed blueprint |

### Building blocks of LLD

#### REQUIREMENT GATHERING

- This step is about understanding detailed system behavior. i) What features should the system support ii)what
  constraints exists iii)What edge cases might occur?
- This includes identifying the functionality, constraints and edge cases to ensure the design meets user needs
- For instance in Banking system,

**Key features**

- Create Account
- Deposit Money
- Withdraw Money
- Transfer Money
- View Transactions
- Loan Management
- Bill Payments
- Notifications

**Constraints**

1. Prevent double transactions
2. Maintain data consistency
3. Ensure secure payments
4. handle concurrent transactions

**Edge Cases**

1. Insufficient balance
2. Payment Gateway failure
3. Network failure
4. Same account transferring money simultaneously.

#### LAYING DOWN USE CASES

- Define specific scenarios that the system will handle outlining inputs, actions and expected outputs.
- Use cases help in clarifying the scope and guiding the design process.
- use cases describe real-world scenarios that system should support.
- Each use case should contain Input, Processing, Output

**Examples**

**Open Bank Account:**

- Input : name, Aadhaar, mobile number
- process: validate KYC, generate account number, create account
- Output: account created successfully.

**Transfer Money**

- Input: Sender Account, receiver Account, Amount
- Process: Validate accounts, checks balance, Lock accounts, Debit sender, credit receiver, save transaction, send
  notification
- Output: Money Transferred successful and transaction is success

**Loan Application**

- Input: Account ID, Loan amount, Income details
- Process: Check eligibility, calculate interest, Approve/Reject.
- Output: Loan Status (Approved/Rejected)

**Bill Payment**

- Input: Account, Bill Amount, Merchant
- Process : Check Balance, Process payment, Generate receipt
- output: Payment Confirmation

#### UML Diagrams

- Create diagrams to visually represent the structure behavior and interactions of system components.
- **Class Diagram:** Represents entities like User, Account, Transaction, Payment and Loan. It also defines classes,
  attributes, methods and relationships.
- User (userId, name, phone), Account (accountNumber, balance, accountType, deposit(), withdraw()), Transaction (
  transactionId, amount , type, status), Load (loadId, loanAmount, interestRate,tenure), Payment (paymentId, merchant,
  amount)
- Relations (User → owns → Account, Account → creates → Transaction, Account → applies → Loan, Account → performs →
  Payment)
- **Sequence Diagram:** Shows interaction between components over time.
- Money Transfer (User ->  BankingService -> AccountService ->  TransactionService ->  NotificationService)
- User → Transfer Request, AccountService → Check Balance, TransactionService → Process Transfer, Database → Save
  Transaction, NotificationService → Send SMS
- **Activity Diagram:** Mapping workflows logic between components.

```text
Start
 ↓
Validate Account
 ↓
Check Balance
 ↓
Balance Available?
 ├── No → Reject
 └── Yes
        ↓
Process Transfer
 ↓
Save Transaction
 ↓
Send Notification
 ↓
End
```

#### MODEL PROBLEMS

- This phase focuses on solving specific problems identified during the use case analysis. It involves breaking down the
  system into smaller components and addressing individual design challenges.
- Design patterns play a crucial role in this phase offering reusable solutions to common design problems
- Some of the Most famous design patterns include Factory, Strategy, Observer.

**Prevent Double Transactions**
- Use account locking
- Use database transactions

**Payment Strategy**
- use strategy pattern
- Different payment types UPI, Credit Card, Mobile Banking

**Object Creation**
- use factory pattern
```text
AccountFactory

createAccount(type)
   ├─ SavingsAccount
   ├─ CurrentAccount
```

**Notifications**
- Use Observer Pattern

```text
TransactionCompleted
        ↓
Notify
   ├─ SMS
   ├─ Email
   ├─ Push Notification
```
#### IMPLEMENT CODE:

- Translate the design into clean, modular and efficient code, adhering to coding standards and principles such as SOLID
  and DRY to ensure maintainability and scalability.
